This is the motion detection logic of this app using OpenCV. 
This code captures video from a source, applies some preprocessing steps like converting frames to grayscale, Gaussian blurring, and finding contours to detect motion in the video feed. 
Here's a breakdown of what the code does:

1. Captures video from a source, presumably a webcam or a video file.

    -   url = get_droidcam_url()
        video = cv2.VideoCapture(url)
    
    . get_droidcam_url():   This function seems to retrieve the URL for streaming video from some source, likely DroidCam, 
                            which is an application that allows using a smartphone camera as a webcam.

    . cv2.VideoCapture(url):    This function initializes a video capture object. 
                                It takes the URL or the device index (typically 0 for the default webcam) as an argument and returns a video capture object.
        . Arguments:
            - url:  This is the argument passed to VideoCapture() which specifies the source of the video. 
                    In this case, it is a URL obtained from the function get_droidcam_url()


2. Preprocesses each frame:

    . Converts the frame to grayscale.

        -   gray_frame = cv2.cvtColor(frame, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)
        
        . cv2.cvtColor():   This function converts an image from one color space to another. 
                            Here, it converts the frame from BGR (Blue, Green, Red) to grayscale.

        . Arguments:
            - frame:    This is the input image/frame that we want to convert to grayscale.
            - cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY:   This argument specifies the conversion code, 
                                    indicating that we want to convert the input frame from the BGR (Blue-Green-Red) color space to grayscale.
    
    . Applies Gaussian blur to the grayscale frame to reduce noise.

        -   gray_frame_gau_blurred = cv2.GaussianBlur(gray_frame, (21, 21), 0)

        . cv2.GaussianBlur():   This function applies Gaussian blur to the image to reduce noise and detail. 
                                It takes the grayscale frame and a kernel size (in this case, 21x21) as arguments. The kernel size must be an odd number.

        . Arguments:
            - gray_frame:   This is the input image to be blurred, which in this case is the grayscale frame.
            - (21, 21): This tuple specifies the width and height of the Gaussian kernel. 
                        It determines the size of the area over which the blur is applied. Here, it's (21, 21), indicating a 21x21 kernel size.
            - 0:    This represents the standard deviation of the Gaussian kernel in the X direction. 
                    When set to 0, OpenCV automatically calculates the standard deviation based on the kernel size provided. 
                    If we set it to a positive value, it specifies the standard deviation explicitly.
    

3. Initializes first_frame to the first frame of the video. This frame will be used as a reference to detect motion.

    -   if first_frame is None:
            first_frame = gray_frame_gau_blurred

    . This condition checks if the first_frame variable is None. If it is, it assigns the current processed frame to first_frame. 
      This sets the baseline frame for motion detection.


4. Computes the absolute difference between the current frame and the first_frame.

    -   delta_frame = cv2.absdiff(first_frame, gray_frame_gau_blurred)

    . cv2.absdiff():    This function computes the absolute difference between two frames.
                        In this case, between the first_frame and the current processed frame. It helps highlight the areas where there is a significant change compared to the baseline frame.

    . Arguments:
        - first_frame:  This variable holds the first frame captured from the video source. 
                        It serves as the reference frame against which subsequent frames are compared to detect changes or motion.
        - gray_frame_gau_blurred:   This variable holds the current frame after applying Gaussian blur and converting it to grayscale. 
                                    Gaussian blur is applied to reduce noise and smooth out the image, making it easier to detect meaningful changes. Converting the frame to grayscale simplifies the comparison process by reducing the dimensionality of the image from three channels (RGB) to one channel (grayscale).


5. Thresholds the delta frame to create a binary image where motion areas are highlighted.

    -   thresh_frame = cv2.threshold(delta_frame, 60, 255, cv2.THRESH_BINARY)[1]

    . cv2.threshold():  This function applies a fixed-level threshold to each pixel in the image. 
                        It converts the delta frame into a binary image, where pixels with intensity greater than 60 are set to 255 (white) and others to 0 (black). This helps in isolating the regions of significant change.

    . Arguments:
        - delta_frame:  The input image on which the threshold will be applied. 
                        In this case, delta_frame is the absolute difference between the current frame and the first_frame, highlighting areas of significant change.
        - 60:   The threshold value. Pixels with values greater than this threshold will be set to the maximum value (in this case, 255), 
                while pixels with values less than or equal to the threshold will be set to 0.
        - 255:  The maximum value that pixels can take after applying the threshold. In this case, it's set to 255, which corresponds to white.
        - cv2.THRESH_BINARY:    The type of thresholding. It indicates that the thresholding operation should be binary, 
                                meaning that pixels with values above the threshold become white (255) and those below become black (0).


6. Dilates the thresholded image to fill gaps and holes in the detected objects.

    -   dilated_frame = cv2.dilate(thresh_frame, None, iterations=2)

    . cv2.dilate(): This function performs morphological dilation on the thresholded image. 
                    It helps to merge nearby white pixels and expand the white regions in the image. The iterations parameter controls the number of times dilation is applied.

    . Arguments:
        - thresh_frame: This is the input binary image on which dilation is to be performed. 
                        It's typically the output of a thresholding operation where pixels with intensity values above a certain threshold are set to white (255) and others to black (0).
        - None (structuring element):   In this case, since None is passed, a default rectangular structuring element of size 3x3 is used.
        - iterations=2: This parameter determines how many times the dilation operation is applied to the image. 
                        In this code, it's set to 2, meaning that the dilation operation is applied twice.


7. Finds contours in the dilated image.

    -   econtours, check = cv2.findContours(dilated_frame, cv2.RETR_EXTERNAL, cv2.CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE)

    . cv2.findContours():   This function finds contours in a binary image. 
                            It takes the thresholded and dilated frame as input and returns a list of contours.

    . Arguments:
        - dilated_frame:    The binary image in which contours are to be found. 
                            It typically represents the result of thresholding and dilation operations.
        - cv2.RETR_EXTERNAL:    This parameter specifies the retrieval mode for contours. 
                                RETR_EXTERNAL retrieves only the external contours, meaning it ignores contours within other contours.
        - cv2.CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE:  This parameter specifies the contour approximation method. 
                                    CHAIN_APPROX_SIMPLE compresses horizontal, vertical, and diagonal segments and leaves only their end points. 
                                    This helps in saving memory by removing redundant points.


8. Filters contours based on their area. Contours with an area smaller than 5000 pixels are discarded as noise.
   Draws bounding rectangles around significant contours on the original frame.

    -   for contour in contours:
            if cv2.contourArea(contour) < 5000:
                continue
            else:
                x, y, w, h = cv2.boundingRect(contour)
                cv2.rectangle(frame, (x, y), (x+w, y+h), (0, 255, 0), 2)

                if not (frame == original_frame_no_rectangles).all():
                    status = 1

    . This loop iterates over each contour found in the frame.

    . cv2.contourArea(contour): This function calculates the area of the contour. 
                                Contours with an area smaller than 5000 pixels are considered noise and are skipped.
        . Arguments:
            - contour:  This argument is a single contour represented as a numpy array. 
                        Contours are lists of points that describe the boundary of an object in an image.

    . cv2.boundingRect(contour):    This function calculates the bounding rectangle for the contour. 
                                    It returns the coordinates (x, y) of the top-left corner and the width (w) and height (h) of the rectangle.
        . Arguments:
            - contour:  This argument is a single contour represented as a numpy array. 
                        Contours are lists of points that describe the boundary of an object in an image.

    . cv2.rectangle():  This function draws a rectangle around the detected object in the original frame. 
                        The color of the rectangle is set to green (0, 255, 0), and the thickness is set to 2 pixels.
        . Arguments:
            - frame:    This is the image (frame) on which the rectangle will be drawn. It's the original frame retrieved from the video capture.
            - (x, y):   These are the coordinates of the top-left corner of the rectangle. 
                        They represent the position of the bounding box around the detected object.
            - (x+w, y+h):   These are the coordinates of the bottom-right corner of the rectangle.
                            They are calculated based on the width (w) and height (h) of the bounding box.
            - (0, 255, 0):  This tuple specifies the color of the rectangle in BGR format. Here, it represents green color since it's (0, 255, 0). 
                            The first value corresponds to the intensity of blue, the second to green, and the third to red.
            - 2:    This parameter specifies the thickness of the rectangle's outline. 
                    It's set to 2, so the rectangle will be drawn with a thickness of 2 pixels.

    . if not (frame == original_frame_no_rectangles).all():
          status = 1

        . Checks if a rectangle is drawn. 
          If any rectangle is drawn around any significant contour (indicating significant motion), it updates the status variable to 1.

        - (frame == original_frame_no_rectangles):  This part compares each element of the frame array (pixel values of the current frame),
                                                    with the corresponding element of the original_frame_no_rectangles array (pixel values of the first frame). This comparison results in a new array where each element is True if the corresponding elements in frame and original_frame_no_rectangles are equal, and False otherwise.
        - all():    This method checks if all elements of the resulting array from the comparison are True. 
                    If all elements are True, it returns True. If any element is False, it returns False.
        - not (frame == original_frame_no_rectangles).all():    The not operator is applied to the result of .all(). 
                                                                If all elements of the arrays are equal, .all() returns True, and not True evaluates to False. If any element is not equal, .all() returns False, and not False evaluates to True.

        So, overall, if not (frame == first_frame).all(): evaluates to True if there is any difference between the pixel values of the current frame and the original frame, indicating that cv2.rectangle() has modified the frame, implying motion detection. 
        If all pixel values are the same, it means no rectangles were drawn, indicating no motion.  

    . In the provided code snippet, the status variable is used to represent the current state of motion detection. 
      It is set to 0 when no motion is detected and 1 when motion is detected. Let's break down how this logic works:

    . When No Motion is Detected (Status = 0):  Initially, when the program starts or when no motion has been detected yet, 
                                                the status variable is set to 0.
                                                In the motion detection loop, if the condition (frame == original_frame_no_rectangles).all() evaluates to False, it means that there is a difference between the current frame and the first frame (implying motion).
                                                In this case, the status variable is updated to 1 to indicate that motion has been detected.

    . When Motion is Detected (Status = 1): After updating the status variable to 1 when motion is detected, 
                                            it remains 1 until the motion detection condition (frame == original_frame_no_rectangles).all() evaluates to True.
                                            If the condition becomes True, it means that there is no difference between the current frame and the first frame, indicating that the motion has stopped.
                                            In this case, the status variable is set back to 0 to indicate that no motion is detected (status is being reset to 0 at each start of while loop iteration).

    So, the status variable serves as a simple indicator of whether motion is currently detected (1) or not (0). 
    It changes dynamically based on the comparison between the current frame and the reference frame (original_frame_no_rectangles).


9. Appends the current status to the status list and keep only the last two statuses.

    -   status_list.append(status)
        status_list = status_list[-2:]

    . This code appends the current status to the status list, 
      and then truncates the list to keep only the last two statuses. 
      This list is used to track changes in motion status.

    . The status_list variable keeps track of the history of motion statuses over time. 
      Each element in status_list represents the motion status in a specific frame. 
      By updating status_list in each iteration of the loop, the code maintains a history of recent motion statuses.

    . The purpose of keeping this history is to detect specific patterns or transitions in motion status. 
      In this case, the code is interested in detecting a transition from motion to no motion (status changing from 1 to 0).

    . When such a transition occurs (i.e., the motion status changes from 1 to 0), 
      it indicates that an object (rectangle) that was previously detected (indicating motion) is no longer present in the frame. 
      This transition often signifies the end of a motion event, such as an object leaving the scene.

    . Keeping track of only the last two items in status_list serves a specific purpose in this context.
      The status_list is used to detect transitions in motion status, particularly the transition from motion (1) to no motion (0). 
      By retaining only the last two items in the list, the code can easily monitor the most recent history of motion statuses.


10.  Sends Email on Motion Detected

    -   if status_list == [1, 0]:
            send_email()

    . Checks if the last two statuses in the status list indicate a transition from motion (1) to no motion (0). 
      If so, it calls the send_email() function to notify about the detected motion.

    . This pattern [1, 0] represents a transition from motion (1) to no motion (0). 
      In other words, it indicates that an object (or region of interest) that was previously detected (resulting in a 1 status) is no longer present in the current frame (resulting in a 0 status). 
      Such a transition often signifies the end of a motion event or the disappearance of an object from the scene.

    . When this specific pattern is detected in the status_list, it suggests a significant change in the scene, 
      and the code responds by triggering an action, such as sending an email notification. 
      This allows the code to react to changes in motion status and perform appropriate actions based on these changes.


11. Displays the original frame with bounding rectangles drawn around detected motion areas.

    -   cv2.imshow("Video Captured", frame)

    . cv2.imshow(): This function displays an image in a window.
                    Here, it displays the original frame with bounding rectangles drawn around detected motion areas. 
                    The window is named "Video Captured".

    . Arguments:
        - "Video Captured": This is the title of the window where the image will be displayed.
                            It's just a string that acts as the window title. In this case, the window will be titled "Video Captured".
        - frame:    This is the image or frame that we want to display. 
                    It's the original frame captured from the video source (webcam, file, etc.) with any modifications applied to it (e.g., drawing rectangles around detected motion areas).


12. Checks for the 'q' key press to exit the loop.

    -   key = cv2.waitKey(1)
            if key == ord('q'):
                break
    
    . cv2.waitKey():    This function waits for a key event for a specified amount of time (1 millisecond in this case). 
                        If a key is pressed during this time, it returns the ASCII value of the key.
        . Arguments:
            - 1:    This argument specifies the delay in milliseconds. 
                    In this case, 1 indicates that cv2.waitKey will wait for 1 millisecond for a key event. 
                    If a key is pressed during this time, it will return the ASCII value of that key. If no key is pressed, it returns -1.

    . ord('q'): This function returns the ASCII value of the character 'q'. 
                If the 'q' key is pressed, the loop breaks, and the program exits.
        . Arguments:
            - 'q':  In this context, 'q' is a character literal representing the lowercase letter 'q'.


13. Releases Resources.

    -   video.release()
        cv2.destroyAllWindows()

    . video.release():  This function releases the video capture object and frees up any associated resources.
                        When we're done working with a video capture object, it's essential to release it to free up system resources. 
                        Releasing it ensures that the camera or video file is closed properly.

    . cv2.destroyAllWindows():  This function closes all OpenCV windows that were created using functions like cv2.imshow().
                                When we're finished displaying images or videos and we want to close all the OpenCV windows, we use cv2.destroyAllWindows().